
MOTIVATION
----------
When doing a student teacher analysis, the results very much depend on a number of things. One factor
definitely is the quality of the explanations, and that is exactly what we want to find out with the
procedure. Unfortunately, the results also depend on other things as well. For example the results which can
be achieved depend on an equilibrium between the difficulty of the problem and the complexity / ability of
the used student architecture. The main problem is that if the student is too powerful for the problem, it
will learn most of the things on it's own, without needing the explanations. In such a case both student
variants will likely converge to a very good result and there will be no significant difference, meaning
we cannot make an assessment of explanation quality.

Now the hypothesis is: If the previously mentioned case can be observed, there should be an increasing
difference between the student variants when the problem is incrementally made harder.
One method of making the problem harder is by decreasing the dataset size.

DESCRIPTION
-----------
This experiment will create one base dataset and then incrementally use smaller subsets of this base
dataset to perform a repeated student teacher analysis with the goal of plotting the final average
difference of the validation metric over the different dataset sizes (=problem difficulty).
The expectation is that for smaller dataset sizes the learning effect from the explanations.

COLORS DATASET
--------------
The "COLORS" dataset is created by randomly generating graphs of different sizes. Each node has three float
features (R, G, B) corresponding to RGB color values. The graphs are undirected and all edge weights are 1.

COLOR PAIRS TASK
----------------
"COUNT COLOR PAIRS" is a possible task which is defined on the "COLORS" dataset. it is possible to define
two colors and the task to be performed will be to predict an integer value for the number of nodes of the
first color inside the graph, which are connected to at least one node of the second color.
